# qc_atac_seq

**ATAC-seq epigenetics QA/QC pipeline**

**Authors:** Derek Ng, Philip Fremont-Smith, and Darrell O. Ricke, Ph.D.  (Darrell.Ricke@ll.mit.edu )

**RAMS request ID 1021178**

**Overview:**
This is the ATAC-seq epigenetics QA/QC pipeline.

**Citation:** None

**Disclaimer:**
DISTRIBUTION STATEMENT A. Approved for public release. Distribution is unlimited.

This material is based upon work supported by the Department of the Air Force under
Air Force Contract No. FA8702-15-D-0001. Any opinions, findings, conclusions or
recommendations expressed in this material are those of the author(s) and do not
necessarily reflect the views of the Under Secretary of Defense for Research and 
Engineering.

© 2023 Massachusetts Institute of Technology.

The software/firmware is provided to you on an As-Is basis

Delivered to the U.S. Government with Unlimited Rights, as defined in DFARS
Part 252.227-7013 or 7014 (Feb 2014). Notwithstanding any copyright notice,
U.S. Government rights in this work are defined by DFARS 252.227-7013 or
DFARS 252.227-7014 as detailed above. Use of this work other than as specifically
authorized by the U.S. Government may violate any copyrights that exist in this work.


## Instructions

1) Please build the [qc_base] container first before proceeding.

2) Build NRSatac-seq.def: 

    singularity build NRSatac-seq.sif NRSatac-seq.def

3) Put your input data files in the "io/" directory.

4) Build atac-seq.def: 

    singularity build atac-seq.sif atac-seq.def

5) Run the container by typing:
    ```
    singularity run -B io/:/io/ atac-seq.sif -1 <read_file1> [options]
    ```
   Output generated by the pipeline will be stored in the "io/" directory.

## Parameter options

	    -1 <string>    The first input read filename (required option)

	    -2 <string>    The second input read filename (only if paired-end)

	    -t <int>       The number of threads (default = 16)

	    -h             Print this help message

## Metrics computed
```
    Sequencing depth
    Aligned reads
    Nodup_flagstat_qc
    overlap_frip_qc
    NFR peak detected
    Presence of mononucleosomal peak detected
    TSS enrichment score
    Mean trimmed sequence length
```
